you can't give anyone ownership of what
is going to happen with you they can
certainly walk beside you and chug you
on and maybe work with you but if you
want something if you have a passion in
your heart fire in your belly it's going
to be you
it's gonna be you getting up early it's
gonna be you staying up late it's gonna
be you running the miles and and going
to the gym and eating the kale and doing
all the crap that you don't it's only
gonna be you because
outside motivation is only can only last
for so long
you can hire the greatest trainer in the
world you know you can um you can have
the greatest cheerleader i could have
you run beside me and yell out
inspirational sayings
but ultimately
it's on
me
it's like do you ever see that video
that um
oh gosh who's the guy that won a billion
gold medals for swimming michael phelps
michael phelps you ever seen that video
like the end of it is like
what happens you are celebrated in the
light for what you do in the dark like
what you do before anyone else is awake
what you do when no one is looking
that's what you're celebrated for and
nobody else can force you to do that
that's going to be on you
[Music]
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
our goal with this show and company is
to introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams
all right today's guest is the number
one new york times and usa today
best-selling author of girl wash your
face
dubbed the publishing phenom of 2018 her
book has sold millions of copies
worldwide and become one of the
best-selling new non-fiction books of
the decade
that is a very long way from where she
started she had a rough upbringing that
compelled her to move out at just 17 and
despite not being old enough to sign her
own lease she had the courage to move to
los angeles in pursuit of her dreams she
was dead broke but full of hustle and by
the time she was just 22 she had started
her own upscale party planning business
through perseverance and massive
tenacity and without any formal
education she went on to build not one
not two but three thriving businesses
including the multi-million dollar
juggernaut the hollis company proving
daily that no one gets to tell you how
big you can dream this mother of four
known as the tony robbins for women was
named by ink magazine as one of the top
30 entrepreneurs under 30 long before
her social stardom made her seem like an
overnight success
today she has a social footprint that's
measured in the millions and she is one
of the most sought-after motivational
speakers on the planet
in addition to that she's the host of
two of the highest rated podcasts in the
world rise and rise together so please
help me in welcoming the woman who is
taking the world by absolute storm the
author of the new book girl stop
apologizing the founder and ceo of the
hollis company rachel hollis
[Applause]
what a person you are the greatest hype
squad i have ever encountered i'll just
run behind you everything please because
i'm gonna get that recording and just
play it right before i go work out every
day rightly so speaking of things that
you do to get hyped up for your workout
you open your new book by saying that it
was essentially inspired by demi lovato
it was it absolutely was i thought that
was amazing thank you sorry not sorry
yep and i have a few quotes from the
song okay i'm ready and i want to see
what
in the book you think speaks to this
because i so i put the song on i've
heard it before but never really paid
attention to the lyrics it's actually
pretty awesome good song so here are
some of the lyrics
now i'm out here looking like revenge
yep feeling like a 10 the best i've ever
been
my favorite line if you talk that talk
baby you better walk that walk baby but
that was pretty awesome
and
this this is my second favorite
payback's a bad [__] and baby i'm the
baddest you're [__] [__] with the
savage yes you are so
talk to me about how your book addresses
[__] with a sound
actually my new favorite line about
being a savage is um ariana grande's new
song
yes
been through some hard [__] i should be
a sad [__] who would have thought it
turned me to a savage i'm like yes i got
that um i
heard the song and
was singing it like i feel like
everybody that summer was really singing
that song
and it sparked the question for me of
what are the things i'm not sorry for
and as a recovering people pleaser i
struggled for years with wanting to make
sure everyone was happy and
the idea that someone my husband or my
in-laws or my parents might be
disappointed in me was crippling so
i've done a lot of work and there are
certainly areas of my life where i still
struggle with that but there are some
areas where i just am i'm savage about
it and one of those for me is
i do not care what other people think of
me for having goals and dreams for
myself and i just sat in meetings all
week with really big
companies and people and they would say
like what does the future look like for
you like what is and years ago i would
be like oh i don't know you know we'll
see we'll see what happens and now i'm
like oprah
like if oprah and ellen had a baby
which may be possible here at some point
um
you know like it's someone who can make
you laugh and then also can challenge
you to show up for your own life is but
i couldn't have claimed that five years
ago or 10 years ago i would have worried
what everyone in this room thought of me
because who says that what a douchebag
but i might still struggle with you know
what you think of my hair or my writing
style but i certainly don't care
what what you think of me for having a
dream and i think that it's one of the
things that cripples women most is they
have this desire on their heart they
want to pursue something for themselves
and they're too afraid of what other
people will think they're too afraid of
what like marissa from eighth grade is
going to think of them for signing up
for a half marathon they're too afraid
of what their mother-in-law thinks of
them for wanting to start a business and
they
just drown in the shame associated with
it and nobody calls it bs nobody says
like wait this isn't
we're all dealing with this and so none
of us can step forward into who we're
called to be because we're too worried
about what you think of us so not you
personally i know you totally approve of
all of us so yeah that is for sure
how do you build that though like how do
you go and so obviously at this point
you're so well known for your
vulnerability which is astonishing and
so consistent it's
it doesn't feel like you're putting it
on it just really feels like you're very
okay with um processing through things
making mistakes whatever like really
creating that space so other people can
see that um you know behind what you've
created is all the stumbling in in the
world but yeah you learn from it so how
did you go from
being paralyzed by your mother-in-law's
expectations or what you know your
eighth grade friend was going to think
to really owning that well i think first
of all it was over a you know a decade i
know everyone sort of and nowadays we
see social media we're always kind of
looking for the magic bullet and i if
you want business advice or life i mean
i can tell you what worked for me but
none of it's fast and i i don't think
that the things that are lasting are
ever quickly accomplished so
for me a couple of things i had really
pivotal moment and like at some point
i'll stop quoting him but i'm a huge fan
of tony robbins going to upw changed my
life um
that's not an ad and i don't actually
know him it just really was a huge deal
for me
but i was at that conference years and
years ago and um he
they do this thing where it's a question
he asks everybody like oh which parent
did you crave love from most and if
you've seen his documentary he he does
the same thing in the documentary not
who did you love most who did you crave
love from most and for me it was my dad
and he said now who did you have to be
for him in order to get his love
and for me i i knew the answer this was
nothing new i'd done a ton of therapy so
i'm like i that's why i'm an achiever
like i had to perform
in my family nobody paid attention to
you unless you were doing something good
so if you got an a on the test if you
scored a goal in the soccer game then we
all clap for you and we love you and the
second that that achievement is done
we're back over here doing our thing
and what that teaches a child is that in
order to get love you better keep
achieving now i don't regret that
because gosh it's manifested into
something really powerful as an adult
but um so we asked that question who'd
you have to be and then he says and who
else did you have to be and i had never
consciously had this thought and it fell
out of my mouth small
so my dad was um little girl little girl
you don't know what you're talking about
little girl this little girl and he
wanted you to be bigger than life when
other people were watching but he also
believed that children should be seen
and not heard you little girl you better
shut your mouth so how do you carry that
how do you carry be as big and achieving
as you can possibly be
and then shut up because nobody wants to
hear what you have to say and i found
myself as a grown woman sitting there
realizing that this had become my career
so i had
in the dark like behind the scenes in a
way that it wouldn't bother anybody i'm
building and dreaming and an
entrepreneur and super proud of what i'm
doing but if you had asked me what do
you do i'd be like oh i have this little
blog
and it was at the time i'm like by
myself it's over six figures i was
really proud of what i would but i never
said that family parties oh oh rachel
she's a little blogger she's a little
diy but i i wouldn't claim
what i was doing because i just thought
i've got to be big and i've also got to
be small so for me it was a
understanding why that's why i think
therapy is so freaking powerful it's not
that time that you sit in the chair with
someone and cry about all the things
it's that moment where you're like oh my
gosh
that's why if you know why you can learn
how to navigate around something but i
think if you don't know the core of the
problem you can't move past it so
understanding why i felt that way
and also
making the decision as a people pleaser
that i would no longer seek love from
others in negative ways
and the only way i know how to do that
is
i'm going to be so filled with love
myself
i'm going to be so filled with love for
my in-laws for my parents for for
everybody else that it doesn't matter if
you love me back i'm gonna love you so
hard it doesn't matter if you love me
back because if i've got enough love for
both of us then i don't need to try and
shape myself into someone new in order
for you to approve of me so those are
two huge
awarenesses that i came to yeah i would
say those are huge
you talk about things taking time that
realization i'm sure was in the
beginning probably a lot easier to say
than to actually follow through
how did you process through those
moments where you had this new rule
where you're like i'm not going to love
anybody in a negative way
and yet i feel terrible when i'm not
being approved of totally so how do you
to process through that how do you get
to the other side yeah so i love i love
tangible real life like here's exactly
what i did so i paid attention to what
were the things that really triggering
for me going to family functions
holidays those were the times where it
would be the worst so i'm going to go
into
community with people who've known me
since i was a little girl and there's a
lot of stuff that comes up there and i
also have a really long history of
managing the stress of that in bad ways
so i'm going to have to go deal with all
my family i'll drink a bottle of wine by
myself in order to be able to handle it
so instead it was being able to identify
what were the most triggering times and
then preparing in advance to deal with
them as the person i want to be if
you're not like if you're not
intentional about how you're going to
show up it's like if you aim at nothing
don't worry you'll hit it and for me it
was like i'm going into these situations
that i know are triggering without being
prepared and of course that's why i'm
not showing up as a person i want to be
so we would legitimately and we still do
this but dave and i would like you know
three days in advance be like okay
thanksgiving okay what are the things
that might throw us off at thanksgiving
okay there's going to be people you know
this person's going to be there they're
probably going to say something that's
racist they're probably going to talk
about who they're voting for it's going
to be like a whole thing um or
we know that they're upset because we're
not coming to christmas too or probably
so we would in advance not in a not in a
negative not creating drama where that
none exists but what might throw us off
um we're both friends with brendan
burchard and he has this great planner
and one of my favorite questions that
asked in the daily planner is what do
you need to accomplish today and what
might throw you off and i think just
prompting yourself with that allows you
to see kind of from a higher level what
might happen so we'd identify what might
be triggering that day and okay how
we're going to prepare for it in advance
so for me
this is a very dramatic thing but i
think maybe other women can identify
with this i would go to a family
function i'm going to be triggered by
someone who's there i'm going to drink
too much i'm going to eat a bunch of
food that makes me feel like garbage now
not only do i feel like garbage but i've
also there's something for me like
primal about not treating my body the
right way that feels like the greatest
form of failure but now i've also blown
whatever health plan i set for myself
and that creates a lot of emotional so
there's just
so not only do i need to prepare myself
emotionally to deal with these people
but as silly as it sounds i need to make
sure i eat before i go i need to make
sure that i've either eaten things that
are appropriate or i've hydrated or i'm
bringing food with me i need to set
myself up for success which as i'm
saying i'm like if i heard someone say
this and be like you're crazy but
i the intention was can i leave this
place
and still be the person that i want to
be like can i leave the same woman that
i walked in and i think for a lot of us
we go into those scenarios and we walk
out as our 13 year old self
and i wanted to walk out of that time
with my family or dave's family and
still be the woman that i want to be and
that looks like preparation you talk a
lot about intention yeah it sounds
highly intense yeah i think that one of
the biggest things that people
misunderstand about being successful is
it's not that you're smarter than the
next person
it's that you
recognize where you're at you're really
honest about what you're good at what
you're not good at what's going to stop
you it's going to hold you back what are
your general thoughts around intention
should people be journaling how specific
do they need to be oh yeah i mean
actually it's some of my favorite talks
i've ever listened to of yours or
podcasts that you've done where you've
talked about mindset and how important
that was and the impetus for you to
change your life in such huge ways
because it's everything it's everything
and it sounds like very sweeping
generalization but the idea that we
really can be in control you cannot
control the variables out here in the
world but you can control your reaction
to them and you can control how you show
up in this space so
that looks like for me
morning routine is hugely important so
starting you know making sure that
meditation and prayer making sure that
workouts in
i do brendan's planner i do my own
journal so i had this habit for years
where just as part of my to-do list
every day i would write down the dreams
that i had for my life and i would write
them down as if they had already
happened i heard that years ago at a
conference someone said you know it's if
you say like i'm going to make a million
dollars this year all your brain hears
is going to and you already have a bunch
other to do so why does this sentence
stand out but if you said i have a
million dollars and you're nowhere near
that it makes your brain sort of wake up
and take notice and so every day for
years and years and years i did this
practice
and it is
insane if you go read my notebooks from
five years ago it's the life i have
today it's absolutely
crazy insane and that's not like oh i
wrote it down and so it happened it's i
wrote it down every single morning and
so every single morning i reset my
intention this is where we're going this
is where we're going this is where we're
going and it's not just things like i
want to have a new york times bestseller
which was a huge dream of mine it's also
writing down every day i'm an
exceptional mom
i'm an exceptional wife because that's
the woman i want to be and as
silly as it sounds if you don't remind
yourself every single day that that's
your mission
then you're not resetting
where you're headed and just that simple
prompt it might be something as simple
as like oh i'm gonna send dave a text
and tell him he looks hot today or um
i'm gonna you know write a note for my
kids and leave it on their pillow so
that when they get in bed tonight
they'll like find a surprise it's just
the simple reminder of how i want to
show up in the world so that was hugely
powerful for me um i also
love the idea and forgive me because i
don't i for sure didn't make this up i
don't know who i heard this from but i
don't write to-do lists i write results
lists like what's the result you want
not the thing you have to do it might
have been tony every basically
everything is tony everything's tony
it's a problem if he ever heard me speak
he'd be like huh yeah i've done that 40
times
but uh the idea that you don't say like
all the things you want to accomplish
today
you write down what's the result that
you're after because um
okay so for instance years ago when i
was an event planner my to-do list could
have been like send emails to these 10
people redo their portfolio blah blah
blah but the result that i'm after is i
need a new client or i need to make more
money and if you focus on the result you
can come up with 50 different ways to
get
to the result that aren't bogged down
with all of this other crap you think is
in between where you are and where you
want to go
so yeah i i agree with that violently
going back to your book i think that one
thing that's really really interesting
about it is the way that you structure
it around like 80 of the book is the
excuses that you you literally tackle
them one by one that was really smart
and then skill acquisition yeah so
why why that structure why excuses and
skills because that well the excuses are
just what i hear all day from women in
dms and emails standing in line at a
book signing it's all the reasons why
they can't do what they want to do and
um
makes my head explode because it's like
what like you're not ugh
it drives me crazy so i thought it's
well and good for us to talk about the
things that you need to do to achieve
this stuff but none of this matters if
you don't have this foundational
like presence of mind to get out of your
own way and to stop using that as a
crutch for why you can't
do what you want to do if i get flack
for anything in this space it's the idea
that i tell women that anybody can
accomplish anything and i really believe
that to the marrow of my bones because
there is no reason that i should have
the life that i have the business i've
built the being on state like i
shouldn't have any of this this is
working
every single day for the last 15 years
to achieve the thing that i want to
achieve you had said something recently
or maybe it was on your instagram where
someone said like how do i become a
speaker and you were like speak
everywhere everyone will go everywhere
that
people are like oh i would love to be a
a speaker but i can never talk like you
and i'm like
i spoke at old folks homes i spoke
because they can't run away by the way
if anyone needs this tip the people
laugh i'm like no was for real mops
groups which is mothers of preschoolers
they exist all over the country
i'd speak at the opening of an envelope
and i was horrible like my first
speeches it was this maybe something it
was like
and it's so embarrassing and you know
your hands are shaking and i had note
cards and i keep the videos on youtube
because i want people to see the
progression of what a decade looks like
i've done it so much you need me to do a
keynote right now i got you i can make
it up
but it didn't start that way it was so
many years and so much effort and the
problem is
people don't they're like well i can't
because or here's the reason why i'm
like yeah me too
i had all those excuses and it didn't
mean that making the decision to move
forward suddenly it got easier
if anything making the decision to move
forward is harder like because now um
john maxwell said this to me the other
day he's like which is the most named
drop you think but i was interviewing
him on the podcast we're not like you
know having a slumber party but he said
um
movement causes friction
always and so it's you it just because
you make the decision to move forward
doesn't mean it you know now we're now
we're doing it no now you've got all
kinds of other problems so excuses were
really important for me to tackle just
because
i i think
love my girls but women especially like
we need to call bs and you need to have
someone
get in your face and say like with all
the love in my heart this is not this is
not real this is something that you've
decided to cling to because it justifies
why you're still in the same place one
of the things that i resonate so much
with your work is
your own ability to get
through something to walk through trauma
as you talk a lot about and to help
other people walk through trauma one
thing i think would be really powerful
i'd love to hear like the story about
your brother
is is extraordinary i'd love to hear how
you walked through that
yeah uh so my older brother ryan was
paranoid schizophrenic had severe
depression
that started
i don't he's three years older than me
and i don't have a memory of him being
sick when i was little he's just my big
brother and um
but as i think about the time that he
started to go through puberty was when
it started to really manifest and
my parents tried everything like every
therapist every doctor
and it just
for a myriad of reasons just didn't work
when he was 17 years old he shot himself
and i had gone into his room to ask him
to give me a ride to school that day and
i found him and
the
that
you know 14 like that kind of trauma i
for years i mean i think the years after
he died i don't even have a very clear
memory of because it was so much weight
i had and still do have some effects but
really severe uh ptsd from that um
terrified you know any loud noise um
still super sensitive to sound and had
really bad insomnia as a young adult and
all of these things that i didn't
understand were the result of what had
happened that day and um
it was it was horrible my my childhood
and family life was never good but that
decimated everything i mean there was
nothing left of our family when that
happened um
and
i
really destroyed
both my parents and um have never
recovered from that and honestly now
that i have children i i understand i
don't know how you come back from that
place but i was also
the baby of four
and i was 14 and it did feel very much
like
aren't i enough of a reason to keep
living and i never said that to them but
i definitely
felt that way
um
it's also why i you know graduated high
school a year early from right after he
died like i started taking every class
that i could and got the credits that i
needed so i could graduate early and i
moved to la at 17 to get out of the
house
i didn't want to be in that place
anymore and i think at the time i had
convinced myself that if i could just
get to a different city i think a lot of
us do this we think if i could just move
to new york or if i could just get to la
or if i could if only i could lose you
know 50 pounds or if only i could have
this or you you think that your
happiness is dependent on something
outside yourself and for me i thought i
just need to be out of this town and
then i got to la and realized like oh
that's just geography like it doesn't
matter where you go
i'm still always going to be here so
i
i think for many years i just tried to
survive it but i will say for all the
ways that my parents struggled something
i think they did really well
was they made me
go to therapy immediately and they
forced me to go
often for years
and i there were so many times that i
sat in the therapist's office and said
nothing for an hour arms crossed like
screw you i'm not going to say anything
but having
having someone in your life a huge
advocate for therapy having someone in
your life
that won't cry
if you tell a hard story is really
important if you are someone who's
always sort of shouldered the weight of
things for your family or kind of been
the one that takes care of everybody
else
you don't share your hardships you don't
share your struggles because you don't
want anyone else to hurt and so now i'm
surrounded by all these people who are
hurting and i can't tell them what i saw
and i can't tell them you know all the
things that i'm struggling with but a
therapist for me was a lifeline because
if i told them those things
they didn't know ryan and so it didn't
hurt them to hear and i needed that
desperately
so i
yeah i moved to la and you know started
working and i think for a very long time
did what a lot of people do which is
like i'm going to throw myself into work
and just ignore this pain and all the
stuff that's over here
and
honestly my
where i am today is maybe six years ago
started having debilitating anxiety
attacks really struggling to get out of
bed was drinking too much like i'd go to
work and be all the things for all the
people then i'd come home at night and
either have an anxiety attack or if
you've ever had an anxiety or panic
attack and you like
dave would be like babe like what's
wrong and i'm like i can't tell you
what's wrong just like the world's
crashing
and
was absolutely abusing alcohol as a way
to deal with it
and
felt like at the time i was going to
have to
maybe get put on medicine and i'm a huge
advocate for whatever you need to do to
be healthy but i really didn't want to
be on medicine
and i thought okay before it gets to
that place you should try and learn
everything there is to learn about how
to manage anxiety
before an attack happens now everything
i know about business i taught myself
you know reading books and on google and
on youtube and i thought well if you
could teach yourself how to run a
successful company could you teach
yourself
how to manage anxiety without medication
and you can turns out you can't learn
anything on youtube uh but i um
i started going to therapy i changed my
diet i you know
like so many things you don't think
about like how much coffee are you
having how much sleep are you getting um
and it took a while but i was able to
manage that
in advance and then that made me think
well what else could we dig into and
what else could we
work through so it's a lifelong process
and i still absolutely have days and i
still have
things that are left over from
what happened with ryan and that will
never leave me
but i also really do believe that life's
happening for us and so many
beautiful things came out of like i am
so much stronger i'm so much more
empathetic because of walking through
that experience if you're like a high
performer or an entrepreneur i think
that the special little like gift in
that is that when you are dealing with
something hard
you will let you will ignore problems
and issues and whatever until it starts
to affect your performance and then
you're like well fine okay i'll go to
therapy because now it's affecting my
ability to work or whatever and for me
that that was a big part of it was i'm
having anxiety attacks from a lot of the
stuff i haven't dealt with and i'm not
going to be able to show up as the woman
i want to be unless i deal with this and
so i did yeah that's actually a really
interesting insight about
as a high achiever if it is diminishing
your performance suddenly you will face
up that was certainly my experience with
anxiety um it got to the point where
i was at my in-laws house who i love
dearly and feel so comfortable around
and my wife wanted me to tell them a
story and i couldn't in front of like
four people i couldn't tell a story in a
living room and i was like okay we've
officially reached the point now where i
have to address this because
it's not only affecting that it's
affecting work and all of that stuff
becomes very problematic
i love
this
because i love the reminder of how many
of us are pushing dreamers entrepreneurs
achieving and we are struggling with
very real things i was um
ed milette had interviewed um stephanie
mcmahon i don't know six months ago and
they were both talking about dealing
with depression
and i often wonder how many high
performers like in these places i always
think like if you want to know what
someone in personal development is
dealing with read their last book you
know they're like let me tell you how to
deal and it's really because they're
they're trying to work through it
themselves so i think it's interesting
and maybe we don't talk enough about
like i still have
anxiety attacks i still have times work
and i have to do the same stuff that i
had to teach myself to do five years ago
or 10 years ago like take a step back
what was your trigger or how do we i
still have to manage it all the time and
i think i'll have to manage it for the
rest of my life not to the extent it
once was but it is a part of our lives
which is why my head wants to explode
when someone says well i can't do it
because i have anxiety i'm like you're
not the only one i can't do it because
i'm suffering with this you're not the
only one
there's so many examples of people
living in opposition of what their
circumstances told them they should be
and so i can't listen to your excuse
because there's too many pieces of
evidence that refute it
the one thing i really hope people take
away from you and i hope it with a fiery
passion that re i hope it's so much i
really will run behind you as the hype
man and it's where you tell people that
of all the things you've done and
accomplished you didn't know how to do
it when you started and that you had to
figure it out and the one thing you just
kept telling yourself was i can figure
this out
so
i i love that you talk about i'm look i
am undereducated it's just like that's a
fact but yeah i'm able to figure this
stuff out yeah i think that's
really powerful yeah another thing that
i think is is really extraordinary and
i'd love you to speak to this is
tied to
the finale
that you did at your event yes in the
documentary was such a cool moment thank
you i loved it the most
and so talk to me about opening yourself
up to other people's opinions
and how you should respond to that
the most valued opinion in my life is my
husband he's my best friend and
that is a blessing and it also can be a
detriment and i think in some ways
earlier in our marriage was really hard
because i am a dreamer and he's very
pragmatic
and he doesn't want me to be hurt and he
always wants to temper my enthusiasm
so
for the longest time i would you know
not do things or not say things because
i knew
that it would bother him or
i wouldn't take things on because i
don't want to inconvenience him in any
way and i think a lot of people struggle
with this you have a desire or dream on
your heart but you don't want your dream
to inconvenience anybody else
and so it was something i struggled with
forever and then i finally just actually
that tony robbins conference that i came
home from and i was like big and small
and who am i and
i
was getting up at 5am i started getting
up at 5am when i came back and he hated
it hated it
and i remember he used to get so annoyed
because the alarm would go off at five
but he didn't have to be up that early
and he would just like hurry up and like
roll over in the bed and be so annoyed
and he would get like later he'd get
onto me and be like when you unplug your
iphone and the cord falls on the ground
i hear the chord sound and it wakes me
up and um
it was the first time in our marriage
that he actively disliked something i
was doing and i didn't stop
i just i was like i'm sorry you don't
like it
i'll see you later like i didn't i
didn't shove it down his throat i didn't
get into a big discussion about it we
didn't have to work through it i was
like oh no cool you don't like it but it
was truly the first time that i realized
and maybe this is going to sound crazy
but that i
am a person and what i want and need in
life
matters as much as what he wants and
needs in life
because i was raised in a home where
what daddy wanted is what we did and
then i took that into my marriage it
wasn't something that he gave to me i
took that attitude into our marriage and
so if something made him uncomfortable
i didn't do it and it was the first time
i thought wait you're a grown woman like
you're a grown-up and you want to get up
at a certain time that it sounds
ridiculous but it was a big deal in our
marriage so um i just kept doing it i i
didn't stop and
that
gave me like to to start sort of taking
ownership of my life but that is a huge
thing for so many women who come to me
and they stand in line for hours and the
number one thing i hear is i've lost
myself
i've lost myself i had these babies and
i have and i don't know who i am anymore
because i live my life for everybody
else
and
the reminder is you were someone before
you became their mama and she still
matters
and you were someone before you became
his wife or her wife
and she still matters
so um finding a way to
to know that like
i want to love you and i walk i want to
walk beside you and i want to be in
relationship with you but even
dave who i love most in the world and
who is my biggest cheerleader on earth
even his opinion
can't have as much weight as my own
and for for the documentary we were
planning this conference and i had this
crazy idea i love like
love my favorite thing in the whole
world is a movie that has like a big
number big dance number big makeover
suddenly we're busting into song it's
like my dream
and so i came to the team and i was like
you guys i have this crazy idea and it
wasn't just dave my entire team was like
you're insane you know you and and
they're they're it was from a place of
concern like
i'm traveling non-stop you got a book do
you got all these babies like how in the
world are you gonna like learn a dance
choreography get the whatever and i was
like i don't know but i just think it's
a thing
so
they all talked me out of it like i was
like okay because what happens is when
you have an idea
to write a book or build a company or do
the thing
and you open it up for discussion
you give other people the ability to
take the wind out of your sails and most
of the time it's from a place of love so
i let them talk me out of the idea
like you're right
because they speak into the exact thing
that i'm already nervous about how am i
gonna have the time you don't know how
to do a finale like all of the stuff
but i couldn't stop thinking about it
cause i just thought man like
oh we could have a song and the women
who have never some of them women have
never left home they've never been on a
plane and they're in this theater and
then all of a sudden there's going to be
singing and dancing and all would be so
special and then i was like
yeah i'm just going to go ahead and do
that
so i reach out to this random guy that i
barely know this choreographer and he's
like oh my god yes and usually when you
reach out to other dreamers they're like
i've been waiting for this
they've been planning this dance in
their head for 10 years and finally when
you step into what you're called to
now you've given other people the
opportunity to step into the fullness of
what they're capable of and so we we
pulled it off i don't even know how but
we pulled it off and it's in the
documentary and it's so beautiful and i
mean trying to get the rights to that
song to put a movie was like a six-month
process we never know how to do anything
but we figured out
and it was so beautiful and it was so
unexpected and it became this really
great lesson if you have a passion in
your heart fire in your belly you it's
it's gonna be you
it's gonna be you getting up early it's
gonna be you staying up late it's gonna
be you running the miles and and going
to the gym and eating the kale and doing
all the crap that you don't it's only
going to be you because
outside motivation can only last for so
long you can hire the greatest trainer
in the world you know you can um you can
have the greatest cheerleader i could
have you run beside me and yell out
inspirational sayings
but ultimately
it's on
me
it's like do you ever see that video
that um
oh gosh who's the guy that won a billion
gold medals for swimming michael phelps
michael phelps you ever seen that video
like him in the dark like all the
training that you like oh it's a great
nike video that i'm not gonna quote well
but um
the end of it is like
what happens you are celebrated in the
light for what you do in the dark like
what you do before anyone else is awake
what you do when no one is looking
that's what you're celebrated for and
nobody else can force you to do that
that's going to be on you
i think the most beautiful part of the
book stop apologizing girl stop
apologizing
and this is one i know when people are
reading they're gonna underline the life
out of it
because of that whole notion of what's
on your heart what's on your heart
what's that thing that you can't like
you just can't stop coming back you
can't stop thinking about it and in the
book you actually make a slightly
different reference you're talking about
a story that you wanted to write
and you got feedback that maybe had been
done before or whatever but you were
just like this is the thing that's on my
heart it's the story that i want to tell
and nobody gets to tell me not to and
you said
they may be right yeah totally this may
fail yeah the experts may be right this
is not the place to do it yeah but
that's not the point yeah the point is
to express your joy and i was like oh my
god like if people get that yeah they'll
be fine yeah
sadly yeah much to my absolutely
crushing heart
i have to ask my last question yes but
before i do yeah tell these guys where
they can find you online uh i am miss ms
rachel hollis on every social platform
and uh you can get the podcasts anywhere
you get your podcasts
excellent all right my final question
what is the impact that you want to have
on the world
i think that if um
if you know 50 years from now or six
years from now or two years from now i
am gone i'm gone to heaven and someone
is asking like how did she show up in
this space or how did she show up in
this world
if i could have a legacy
the idea that women
would take more ownership of their lives
and step more fully into who they're
called to be and i love i'm i'm super
grateful for all the bros here um i love
men i'm raising three of them
but really i feel like my calling is to
talk to women and
the idea that you
are in control of what happens next
because you are in control of yourself
you cannot control the world around you
or how people will act but you can
control how you show up today the
intentionality that you bring to this
earth and what you do next with your
life and if i can have an impact if
hey it'd be rad if if women who built
massive businesses or became the
president were like oh yeah i read this
book
and it help
but even more than that just the mom in
ohio
just the girl who's in college right now
and struggling with how to show up for
herself just
any woman that didn't ever think that
before that didn't ever question
if i tried this if i did that if i
taught myself this thing if i showed up
in this way
what would it change and and
once i achieve that thing then what can
i do next
um
that you're in control of your own life
that women
fundamentally understand that to their
core
if i get to choose any impact that's it
it's amazing
and guys i think that she's having that
impact i think that's exactly what
you're going to take away from the book
and there's no question that whether i
intend to or not i tend to speak in a
fairly masculine way so
um i think it is really interesting for
the audience of this show whether male
or female to go check her out to if
you're not already
following her
youtube channel which is extraordinary
her podcasts
both which are both incredible you will
benefit from them and my appeal directly
to the guys in the audience
i will say this the reason that i have
had the kind of relationship that i've
had with my wife the reason it's been so
successful
is because when i was a teenager i was
not good with women at all and so i
obsessively started reading cosmopolitan
magazine and everything else
because it gave me an insight into how
women are when they're talking to
themselves
i read her most recent book girl stop
apologizing it is not only extraordinary
because it's hearing how women speak
when they're speaking to themselves it's
just good advice like it doesn't matter
who you are it will apply it is truly
extraordinary and i think that she has
insights into humanity that go beyond
the the sexes and i think that you will
be blown away by her
no [__] approach how its action
items it is things you can do it is very
specific it is a list of excuses and she
debunks them one after another and then
follows up with how to acquire skills it
is
it is extraordinary there are some
people who
just crush it in life and you meet them
and you
look more and more at their work and you
go i get it i get why they're as
successful as they are and this is
somebody man i'm telling you the closer
you look the more impressed you will be
go get her book
go subscribe to everything you can you
will be a better person for it and if
you have any interest in raising a
daughter or
being in a relationship with a woman of
any kind it will serve you yeah all
right and ladies i know you already get
it so i won't uh
all right if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care
rachel thank you so much that was
beyond it
if you liked that episode be sure to
click below to watch another badass
woman who is doing amazing things in the
world marie forleo enjoy and i'll see
you guys there
if i'm miserable if i'm upset if i'm
angry if i'm cranky it is my
responsibility